Katy Perry isn't actually her real name. Her full name is Katheryn Elizabeth Hudson, but she later changed her name to avoid confusion with the actress Kate Hudson.
Perry is actually her mother's maiden name.
Katy Perry was born October 25, 1984 in Santa Barbara, California.
Both of Katy's parents are pastors. 
Katy started her singing career at her parents church at the age of 9.
Perry grew up with strict Pentecostal Christian parents and she wasn't even allowed to watch The Smurfs or read Harry Potter. Ironically enough, in July 2011 Katy made her film debut as Smurfette in The Smurfs.
She grew up listening strictly to Christian music, but when she heard her first non-Christian album, Alanis Morissette's Jagged Little Pill, she was inspired by You Oughta Know.
Perry is the second child of three siblings. She has an older sister and a younger brother.
She studied Italian Opera singing for a short time.
Perry began her music career singing Christian pop.
When she was 16, Katy Perry released a Christian pop album under her real name, Katy Hudson. She told 'EW,' 'It reached literally maybe 100 people,' 'and then the label went bankrupt'.
She left home at the age of 17 to pursue her music career. She was signed by Island Def Jam Music Group and went to Los Angeles to work on a new album, which unfortunately never saw the light of day.
Katy and Gym Class Heroes lead singer, Travis McCoy, dated on and off for several years until they split for good in 2009.
Katy was still dating Travis when she recorded the video for I Kissed a Girl. Travis also has a cameo in the video.
She's been the only artist since Michael Jackson to have 5 number 1 hits from the same album,Billboard reported.
Katy Perry's 3D concert/bio movie 'Katy Perry: Part of Me' was released in theaters July 5th 2012.
Katy Perry's 'Part of Me' received a PG rating. It was the second movie made by MTV Films to get a PG rating after Napoleon Dynamite, and the studio's first documentary film to receive the rating, IMDB said.
Perry has a contralto vocal range.
Katy Perry got engaged to Russell Brand during the Christmas holidays in 2009. They were dating since September 2009.
Russel Brand proposed to Katy Perry around New Years 2009 in India, while sitting atop an elephant watching fireworks.
